Install Docker on Various Platforms: Text Direction
Section 22, Lecture 124
If you don't already have docker installed, Docker already has some great guides on how to do it. The rest of this Section is about how to setup Docker on your specific OS, but if you already know which OS you want to install on, here's the short-list for downloading it.

The video lectures after this Lecture are walkthroughs of installing Docker, getting the GitHub repo, getting a code editor, and tweaking the command line if you want to.



Installing on Windows 10 (Pro or Enterprise)

This is the best experience on Windows, but due to OS feature requirements, it only works on the Pro and Enterprise editions of Windows 10 (with latest update rollups). You need to install "Docker for Windows" from the Docker Store.



Installing on Windows 7, 8, or 10 Home Edition

Unfortunately, Microsoft's OS features for Docker and Hyper-V don't work in these older versions, and "Windows 10 Home" edition doesn't have Hyper-V, so you'll need to install the Docker Toolbox, which is a slightly different approach to using Docker with a VirtualBox VM. This means Docker will be running in a Virtual Machine that sits behind the IP of your OS, and uses NAT to access the internet.

NOTE FOR TOOLBOX USERS: For all examples that use http://localhost , you'll need to replace with http://192.168.99.100



Installing on Mac

You'll want to install Docker for Mac, which is great. If you're on an older Mac with less than OSX Yosemite 10.10.3, you'll need to install the Docker Toolbox instead.



Installing on Linux

Do *not* use your built in default packages like apt/yum install docker.io  because those packages are old and not the Official Docker-Built packages. 

I prefer to use the Docker's automated script to add their repository and install all dependencies: curl -sSL https://get.docker.com/ | sh  but you can also install in a more manual method by following specific instructions on the Docker Store for your distribution, like this one for Ubuntu.